
One Sentence summary


Introduction

I started learning Swahili during the COVID-19 epidemic. I began on the
Duolingo app, but eventually got frustrated by how repetitive it became.  As
one would expect from a typical flashcard application, the questions and
corresponding answers appeared to be hard-coded, which meant translating "the
boy drinks milk" over and over again. Eventually I learned that although
Swahili grammer has a lot of rules, there are few exceptions, so I set up to
develop and application that encodes Swahili language rules in order to
automatically generate quiz questions.

Theory

Swahili is an "agglutinative" langauge, meaning that words can be constructed from a colleciton of syntactially indistinct components called "morphemes". This is best illustrated by example. Consider the Swahili sentence.

"Matunda hayatauzwa" which means "the fruits have not been sold"

The sentence can be split into its constituant mophemes like so:

Ma - tunda  ha-ya-ja-uz-wa 

Plurality,  noun root,      negation, subject, tense, verb root, passive voice

Each one of these morphenes serves as distanct purpose, and cannot stand alone.
For example, "ja" on its own has no meaning in the same way that "tion" has no
mean in English outside the context of a word like "education". These
morphemes are also loosely coupled. For example, plurality and subject
morphemes are tied to the properties of the noun root, and the tense morpheme
is coupled to the negation morpheme. The plurality and subject morphemes are
the most complex, because they much agree with the "noun class" of the noun. In
Swahili nouns are grouped into classes that determine how they interact with
other parts of speech. This concept is analogous to grammatical gender, encountered in
Romances langauges, for example. Whereas Spanish and Latin have 2 and 3 grammatic genders,
respectively, Swahili has 10, many of which having distinct singular and plural
forms.

The basic idea of Mashariki is to randomly generate sentences by sampling
morphemes in a fashion the respects the aforemented coupling rules.


Backend
-------

The English langauge dependency 

Read files from disk that contain information about nouns and verbs

A single Swahili word can have multiple Swahili translation

Noun and Verb classes, Noun Components Object

Challenge abstract base class can be subclassed to create challenges


Frontend
--------

The fronted is done is Django

Cookies


